COMMAND_PARSER_DOCS.md, before:

# Deterministic Command Parser Implementation

## Overview
Successfully created a deterministic command parser module that replaces the AI agent functionality for the Telegram vocabulary learning bot. The parser uses pure TypeScript logic without any AI/LLM dependencies.

## What Was Implemented

### 1. **Command Parser Module** (`src/mastra/commandParser.ts`)
- **Purpose**: Parse and process Telegram commands deterministically
- **Features**:
  - Command detection and parameter extraction
  - Direct tool invocation from `src/mastra/tools/*`
  - Multi-step conversation flows
  - State management for guided interactions
  - HTML-formatted responses for Telegram

### 2. **Conversation State Storage** (`src/mastra/conversationStateStorage.ts`)
- **Purpose**: Persist conversation states between messages
- **Features**:
  - PostgreSQL-based state storage
  - Automatic state expiration (5 minutes)
  - Session management for multi-step flows

### 3. **Updated Workflow** (`src/mastra/workflows/vocabularyWorkflow.ts`)
- **Changes**: Replaced AI agent step with command parser step
- **Maintains**: Two-step workflow structure (parse → send to Telegram)

## Supported Commands

### Core Commands
- `/add` - Add new vocabulary cards (supports guided flow and quick-add syntax)
- `/list [limit]` - Show vocabulary cards
- `/practice` - Start a spaced repetition review session
- `/due` - Check cards due for review
- `/stats` - View learning statistics
- `/streak` - Check study streak

### Card Management
- `/edit [id]` - Edit a card (guided flow)
- `/delete [id]` - Delete a card
- `/export csv` - Export cards to CSV
- `/import` - Import cards from CSV

### Settings & Configuration
- `/settings` - View current settings
- `/reset` - Reset settings to defaults
- `/remind` or `/reminders` - View reminder settings

### Help & Information
- `/help` - Show all available commands
- `/start` - Same as help

### Command Aliases
- `/a` → `/add`
- `/l` → `/list`
- `/p` → `/practice`
- `/h` → `/help`
- `/e` → `/edit`
- `/d` → `/delete`

## Quick-Add Syntax

The parser supports multiple formats for quickly adding cards:

```
/add word | translation
/add word :: translation
/add word | translation | tag1,tag2 | example sentence
```

It also detects quick-add patterns even without the /add command:
```
word | translation
word :: translation
```

## Multi-Step Flows

### Guided Card Addition
1. User types `/add` without parameters
2. Bot asks for front side
3. User provides front text
4. Bot asks for back side
5. User provides back text
6. Bot asks for tags (optional)
7. Bot asks for example (optional)
8. Card is created

### Review Session Flow
1. User types `/practice`
2. Bot shows card front
3. User attempts recall or types "show"
4. Bot reveals answer and asks for grade (0-5)
5. User provides grade
6. Process repeats for next card

### Edit Card Flow
1. User types `/edit [card_id]`
2. Bot shows edit options
3. User selects field to edit
4. User provides new value
5. Card is updated

## State Management

The parser maintains conversation state for:
- **Guided flows**: Tracks current step and collected data
- **Review sessions**: Maintains session ID, current card, progress
- **Import/Export**: Handles CSV data processing
- **Settings menus**: Tracks navigation through options

States automatically expire after 5 minutes of inactivity.

## Error Handling

The parser includes comprehensive error handling:
- Invalid commands → Help message
- Missing parameters → Guidance on correct usage
- Tool failures → User-friendly error messages
- State timeouts → Clear session and prompt restart

## Testing

A test file (`src/mastra/testCommandParser.ts`) was created to verify:
- Command parsing logic
- Parameter extraction
- Quick-add syntax detection
- Multi-step flow handling
- Error scenarios

Run tests with:
```bash
npx tsx src/mastra/testCommandParser.ts
```

## Benefits Over AI Agent

1. **Deterministic**: Always produces consistent, predictable responses
2. **Fast**: No API calls to LLMs, instant response
3. **Cost-effective**: No AI API costs
4. **Reliable**: No AI hallucinations or unexpected behaviors
5. **Maintainable**: Clear code logic, easy to debug and extend

## How It Works

1. **Message Reception**: Telegram sends message to workflow
2. **State Retrieval**: Check for existing conversation state
3. **Command Parsing**: Detect command and extract parameters
4. **Tool Invocation**: Call appropriate tool from `src/mastra/tools/*`
5. **Response Generation**: Format tool output for Telegram (HTML)
6. **State Update**: Save new conversation state if needed
7. **Message Sending**: Return formatted response to Telegram

## Example Interactions

### Quick Add
```
User: /add hund | dog
Bot: ✅ Card added successfully!
     hund → dog
     Use /list to see all your cards.
```

### Guided Add
```
User: /add
Bot: 📝 Adding a new card
     Please enter the front side of your card:
User: katt
Bot: 📝 Front: katt
     Now enter the back side:
User: cat
Bot: Would you like to add tags?
User: animals, pets
Bot: Would you like to add an example?
User: Katten sover på soffan
Bot: ✅ Card added successfully!
     katt → cat
     Tags: animals, pets
     Example: Katten sover på soffan
```

### Review Session
```
User: /practice
Bot: 📚 Review Session Started!
     Cards in session: 10
     
     Card 1/10
     ❓ hund
     
     Try to recall the answer...
User: show
Bot: 💡 Answer: dog
     
     How well did you recall this?
     0 = Complete failure
     5 = Perfect recall
User: 4
Bot: ✅ Recorded (Grade: 4)
     
     Card 2/10
     ❓ katt
     ...
```

## Future Enhancements

Potential improvements could include:
- Support for more languages
- Advanced filtering options
- Bulk operations
- Statistics visualization
- Scheduled reviews
- Audio/image support
- Collaborative decks

## Conclusion

The deterministic command parser successfully replaces the AI agent while maintaining all functionality. It provides a faster, more reliable, and cost-effective solution for the vocabulary learning bot.

Commit message:

feat: add test reminder command

COMMAND_PARSER_DOCS.md, after:

# Deterministic Command Parser Implementation

## Overview
Successfully created a deterministic command parser module that replaces the AI agent functionality for the Telegram vocabulary learning bot. The parser uses pure TypeScript logic without any AI/LLM dependencies.

## What Was Implemented

### 1. **Command Parser Module** (`src/mastra/commandParser.ts`)
- **Purpose**: Parse and process Telegram commands deterministically
- **Features**:
  - Command detection and parameter extraction
  - Direct tool invocation from `src/mastra/tools/*`
  - Multi-step conversation flows
  - State management for guided interactions
  - HTML-formatted responses for Telegram

### 2. **Conversation State Storage** (`src/mastra/conversationStateStorage.ts`)
- **Purpose**: Persist conversation states between messages
- **Features**:
  - PostgreSQL-based state storage
  - Automatic state expiration (5 minutes)
  - Session management for multi-step flows

### 3. **Updated Workflow** (`src/mastra/workflows/vocabularyWorkflow.ts`)
- **Changes**: Replaced AI agent step with command parser step
- **Maintains**: Two-step workflow structure (parse → send to Telegram)

## Supported Commands

### Core Commands
- `/add` - Add new vocabulary cards (supports guided flow and quick-add syntax)
- `/list [limit]` - Show vocabulary cards
- `/practice` - Start a spaced repetition review session
- `/due` - Check cards due for review
- `/stats` - View learning statistics
- `/streak` - Check study streak

### Card Management
- `/edit [id]` - Edit a card (guided flow)
- `/delete [id]` - Delete a card
- `/export csv` - Export cards to CSV
- `/import` - Import cards from CSV

### Settings & Configuration
- `/settings` - View current settings
- `/reset` - Reset settings to defaults
- `/remind` or `/reminders` - View reminder settings

### Help & Information
- `/help` - Show all available commands
- `/start` - Same as help
- `/test` - Check how many cards are due (for testing reminders)

### Command Aliases
- `/a` → `/add`
- `/l` → `/list`
- `/p` → `/practice`
- `/h` → `/help`
- `/e` → `/edit`
- `/d` → `/delete`

## Quick-Add Syntax

The parser supports multiple formats for quickly adding cards:

```
/add word | translation
/add word :: translation
/add word | translation | tag1,tag2 | example sentence
```

It also detects quick-add patterns even without the /add command:
```
word | translation
word :: translation
```

## Multi-Step Flows

### Guided Card Addition
1. User types `/add` without parameters
2. Bot asks for front side
3. User provides front text
4. Bot asks for back side
5. User provides back text
6. Bot asks for tags (optional)
7. Bot asks for example (optional)
8. Card is created

### Review Session Flow
1. User types `/practice`
2. Bot shows card front
3. User attempts recall or types "show"
4. Bot reveals answer and asks for grade (0-5)
5. User provides grade
6. Process repeats for next card

### Edit Card Flow
1. User types `/edit [card_id]`
2. Bot shows edit options
3. User selects field to edit
4. User provides new value
5. Card is updated

## State Management

The parser maintains conversation state for:
- **Guided flows**: Tracks current step and collected data
- **Review sessions**: Maintains session ID, current card, progress
- **Import/Export**: Handles CSV data processing
- **Settings menus**: Tracks navigation through options

States automatically expire after 5 minutes of inactivity.

## Error Handling

The parser includes comprehensive error handling:
- Invalid commands → Help message
- Missing parameters → Guidance on correct usage
- Tool failures → User-friendly error messages
- State timeouts → Clear session and prompt restart

## Testing

A test file (`src/mastra/testCommandParser.ts`) was created to verify:
- Command parsing logic
- Parameter extraction
- Quick-add syntax detection
- Multi-step flow handling
- Error scenarios

Run tests with:
```bash
npx tsx src/mastra/testCommandParser.ts
```

## Benefits Over AI Agent

1. **Deterministic**: Always produces consistent, predictable responses
2. **Fast**: No API calls to LLMs, instant response
3. **Cost-effective**: No AI API costs
4. **Reliable**: No AI hallucinations or unexpected behaviors
5. **Maintainable**: Clear code logic, easy to debug and extend

## How It Works

1. **Message Reception**: Telegram sends message to workflow
2. **State Retrieval**: Check for existing conversation state
3. **Command Parsing**: Detect command and extract parameters
4. **Tool Invocation**: Call appropriate tool from `src/mastra/tools/*`
5. **Response Generation**: Format tool output for Telegram (HTML)
6. **State Update**: Save new conversation state if needed
7. **Message Sending**: Return formatted response to Telegram

## Example Interactions

### Quick Add
```
User: /add hund | dog
Bot: ✅ Card added successfully!
     hund → dog
     Use /list to see all your cards.
```

### Guided Add
```
User: /add
Bot: 📝 Adding a new card
     Please enter the front side of your card:
User: katt
Bot: 📝 Front: katt
     Now enter the back side:
User: cat
Bot: Would you like to add tags?
User: animals, pets
Bot: Would you like to add an example?
User: Katten sover på soffan
Bot: ✅ Card added successfully!
     katt → cat
     Tags: animals, pets
     Example: Katten sover på soffan
```

### Review Session
```
User: /practice
Bot: 📚 Review Session Started!
     Cards in session: 10
     
     Card 1/10
     ❓ hund
     
     Try to recall the answer...
User: show
Bot: 💡 Answer: dog
     
     How well did you recall this?
     0 = Complete failure
     5 = Perfect recall
User: 4
Bot: ✅ Recorded (Grade: 4)
     
     Card 2/10
     ❓ katt
     ...
```

## Future Enhancements

Potential improvements could include:
- Support for more languages
- Advanced filtering options
- Bulk operations
- Statistics visualization
- Scheduled reviews
- Audio/image support
- Collaborative decks

## Conclusion

The deterministic command parser successfully replaces the AI agent while maintaining all functionality. It provides a faster, more reliable, and cost-effective solution for the vocabulary learning bot.
